---
layout: post
title: Beginning ASP.NET 2.0 and Databases学习笔记(一)
date: 2009-04-28 14:30:11
comments: true
sharing: true
categories: linux
tags: 
---

<p></p>  <p>The services (and corresponding namespaces) offered by these class libraries include the following:</p>  <ul>   <li>     <p><b>System Types (System):</b> Includes definitions for most simple data types, conversion functions between types, some mathematical functions, arrays, and ways to handle exceptions.</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>Input/Output (System.IO):</b> Includes classes to read and write to data streams (for example, output to an external device such as a Pocket PC) and to files on drives.</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>Data Access (System.Data):</b> Includes classes to interact with external data, typically a database. This namespace includes most of ADO.NET, which is used by the ASP.NET 2.0 data controls, and thus is of particular interest to this book.</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>Security (System.Security):</b> Includes the classes to implement the foundations of security, particularly the system of permissions.</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>Data Structures (System.Collections):</b> Includes classes to organize and maintain sets of data within .NET including lists, dictionaries, and hash tables. (Note that the System.Data names-pace is for communicating with sets of external data.)</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>Configuration (System.Configuration):</b> Includes classes to establish configuration settings and to handle errors using the settings.</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>Networking (System.Net):</b> Includes classes to work with networking protocols such as IP and Sockets.</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>Reflection (System.Reflection):</b> Includes classes that allow a program to look at itself to identify its own characteristics, such as specialty data types and the organization of the code.</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>Globalization (System.Globalization):</b> Includes classes that hold culture-specific settings such as syntax of dates and currency.</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>Painting and Drawing (System.Drawing):</b> Includes classes that can interface with the graphical user interface. This namespace includes many classes for specific types of renderings, including Pen, Brush, and Imaging.</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>Tracing and Diagnostics (System.Diagnostics):</b> Includes classes to analyze problems, including the dissection of system processes, process counters, and event logs.</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>Windows (Client) Application Model (System.Windows.Forms):</b> Includes classes that allow implementation of the Windows user interface.</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>Web Application Model (System.Web):</b> Includes classes that provide a programming model for producing Web pages. The Web page code runs on the server and renders HTML to the client&#8217;s browser. This class includes over a dozen subclasses that focus on various types of browsers and server services. These are of great interest in this text because System.Web is, essentially, ASP.NET.</p>   </li> </ul>  <p>Note that the .NET Framework contains two application programming models, one for client applications (System.Windows.Forms) and one for Web-based applications (System.Web).</p>  <p>ASP.NET also introduces Web programming innovations that greatly improve the development model over classic Active Server Pages (ASP): </p>  <ul>   <li>     <p><b>Language-independence:</b> Because ASP.NET is part of the .NET Framework, ASP.NET applications can be constructed in the language of your choice, for example Visual C#, Visual Basic .NET, or J#. Classic ASP (versions 1, 2, and 3), on the other hand, was generally used only with JScript or VBScript pages.</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>Compiled instead of interpreted:</b> Unlike classic ASP, which interprets programming instructions every time the page is requested, ASP.NET dynamically compiles pages on the server into native programming instructions that can be run much, much faster. Frequently, an ASP.NET page will run an order of magnitude faster than the same page written in Classic ASP.</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>Event-driven programming model:</b> In classic ASP, pages are always executed in a top-down linear fashion, and HTML markup is often mixed in with the programming instructions. Anyone with experience in Classic ASP knows that this can make your pages difficult to read, and even more difficult to maintain. ASP.NET introduces an event-driven model that allows you to separate code from markup content and to factor code into meaningful units for handling specific tasks, such as responding to a button click from the client. This VB-like eventing model greatly improves the readability and maintainability of your pages.</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>Server controls:</b> Classic ASP requires you to dynamically construct a page rendering by piecing together HTML fragments in code, which often results in writing the same code over and over again across your applications. (How many times have you constructed a table of data from a database query?) One of the great advancements that ASP.NET brings to Web programming is Microsoft&#8217;s encapsulation of code to perform common behavior into server controls that can be <a name="40"></a><a name="IDX-"></a>easily reused within an application. A <i>server control</i> is created declaratively, just like an HTML tag, but represents a programmable object on the server that can interact with your code and output a custom dynamic HTML rendering. ASP.NET includes over 80 server controls that encapsulate behavior that ranges from standard form elements to complex controls such as grids and menus.</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>Design time improvements to controls (when used with Visual Web Developer):</b> Developers can decrease the time it takes to develop a complex page by using design time interfaces such as the Smart Tasks panels, tag-level navigation bars, and wizards that can set control properties.</p>   </li> </ul>  <p>A number of data source controls are available for many types of databases and even nonrelational data sources. Although additional controls are already in development by third parties, the following five data source controls ship with ASP.NET 2.0: </p>  <ul>   <li>     <p><b>SqlDataSource control:</b> To connect to the Microsoft SQL Server and other T-SQL databases that have a managed provider</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>AccessDataSource control:</b> To connect to Microsoft Access files (extension of .MDB)</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>ObjectDataSource:</b> To connect to middle-tier business objects</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>XmlDataSource:</b> To connect XML content</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>SiteMapDataSource:</b> To connect XML files in the format of the ASP.NET 2.0 site map (or site data through a custom provider)</p>   </li> </ul>  <p>Data-bound controls include many that are familiar from ASP.NET 1.<i>x</i>, as well as some that are completely new for ASP.NET 2.0: </p>  <ul>   <li>     <p><b>GridView and DataGrid:</b> For tabular data. GridView is new for version 2, whereas the legacy DataGrid remains largely unchanged for ASP.NET 1.<i>x</i>.</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>DetailsView and FormView:</b> Display data for one record at a time. <a name="43"></a><a name="IDX-"></a></p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>DataList and Repeater:</b> Display multiple data records in flexible layouts defined by the page programmer.</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>ListBox, DropDownList, BulletedList, CheckBoxList, and RadioButtonList:</b> Display a group of options with the expectation that the user will make a selection.</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>AdRotator:</b> Display an advertisement from a store of advertisements. This control was offered in ASP.NET version 1.<i>x</i> but has been updated to be compatible with data source controls.</p>   </li>    <li>     <p><b>TreeView and MenuView:</b> Display hierarchical data.</p>   </li> </ul>  <p>&#160;</p>  <h5><a name="50"></a><a name="ch01lev"></a>Review of Terminology</h5>  <p>To round out t