---
layout: post
title: Linq to SQL Like Operator
date: 2009-12-19 20:59:10
comments: true
sharing: true
categories: linux
tags: 
---

<p>As a response for customer's question, I decided to write about using Like Operator in Linq to SQL queries.</p>  <p>Starting from a simple query from Northwind Database;</p>  <p>var query = from c in ctx.Customers</p>  <p>where c.City == &quot;London&quot;</p>  <p>select c;</p>  <p>The query that will be sent to the database will be:</p>  <p>SELECT CustomerID, CompanyName, ...   <br />FROM&#160;&#160;&#160; dbo.Customers     <br />WHERE&#160; City = [London]</p>  <p>There are some ways to write a Linq query that reaults in using Like Operator in the SQL statement:</p>  <h4>1. Using String.StartsWith or String.Endswith</h4>  <p>Writing the following query:</p>  <p>var query = from c in ctx.Customers</p>  <p>where c.City.StartsWith(&quot;Lo&quot;)</p>  <p>select c;</p>  <p>will generate this SQL statement:</p>  <p>SELECT CustomerID, CompanyName, ...   <br />FROM&#160;&#160;&#160; dbo.Customers     <br />WHERE&#160; City LIKE [Lo%] </p>  <p>which is exactly what we wanted. Same goes with String.EndsWith.</p>  <p>But, what is we want to query the customer with city name like &quot;L_n%&quot;? (starts with a Capital 'L', than some character, than 'n' and than the rest of the name). Using the query</p>  <p>var query = from c in ctx.Customers</p>  <p>where c.City.StartsWith(&quot;L&quot;) &amp;&amp; c.City.Contains(&quot;n&quot;)</p>  <p>select c;</p>  <p>generates the statement: </p>  <p>SELECT CustomerID, CompanyName, ...   <br />FROM&#160;&#160;&#160; dbo.Customers     <br />WHERE&#160; City LIKE [L%]     <br />AND&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160; City LIKE [%n%] </p>  <p>which is not exactly what we wanted, and a little more complicated as well.</p>  <h4>2. Using SqlMethods.Like method</h4>  <p>Digging into <strong>System.Data.Linq.SqlClient</strong> namespace, I found a little helper class called <strong>SqlMethods</strong>, which can be very usefull in such scenarios. SqlMethods has a method called Like, that can be used in a Linq to SQL query:</p>  <p>var query = from c in ctx.Customers</p>  <p>where SqlMethods.Like(c.City, &quot;L_n%&quot;)</p>  <p>select c;</p>  <p>This method gets the string expression to check (the customer's city in this example) and the patterns to test against which is provided in the same way you'd write a LIKE clause in SQL.</p>  <p>Using the above query generated the required SQL statement:</p>  <p>SELECT CustomerID, CompanyName, ...   <br />FROM&#160;&#160;&#160; dbo.Customers     <br />WHERE&#160; City LIKE [L_n%]</p>  <p>Enjoy!</p>  <p><b>原文地址</b> <a href="http://blogs.microsoft.co.il/blogs/bursteg/archive/2007/10/16/linq-to-sql-like-operator.aspx">http://blogs.microsoft.co.il/blogs/bursteg/archive/2007/10/16/linq-to-sql-like-operator.aspx</a></p>