---
layout: post
title: XML的优点
date: 2009-04-29 15:32:24
comments: true
sharing: true
categories: linux
tags: 
---

<h4>XML Is an Industry Standard</h4>
<p>
<br />
As you learned previously, XML is a W3C recommendation. This means it is an industry standard <br />
governed by a vendor-independent body. History shows that vendor-specific proprietary <br />
standards don&rsquo;t get massive acceptance in the software industry. This nonacceptance affects <br />
overall cross-platform data sharing and integration. Being an industry standard has helped <br />
XML gain huge acceptance. 
</p>
<h4>XML Is Self-Describing</h4>
<p>
<br />
XML documents are self-describing. Because of markup tags, they are more readable than, say, <br />
comma-separated values (CSV) files. 
</p>
<h4>XML Is Extensible</h4>
<p>
<br />
Markup languages such as HTML have a fixed set of tags and attributes&mdash;you cannot add your <br />
own tags. XML, on the other hand, allows you to define your own markup tags.
</p>
<h4>XML Can Be Processed Easily</h4>
<p>
<br />
Traditionally, the CSV format was a common way to represent and transport data. However, to <br />
process such data, you need to know the exact location of the commas (,) or any other delimiter <br />
used. This makes reading and writing the document difficult. The problem becomes severe <br />
when you are dealing with a number of altogether different and unknown CSV files. <br />
As I said earlier, XML documents can be processed by a piece of software called a parser. <br />
Because XML documents use markup tags, a parser can read them easily. Parsers are discussed <br />
in more detail later in this chapter. 
</p>
<h4>XML Can Be Used to Easily Exchange Data</h4>
<p>
<br />
Integrating cross-platform and cross-vendor applications is always difficult and challenging. <br />
Exchanging data in heterogeneous systems is a key problem in such applications. Using XML <br />
as a data-exchange format makes your life easy. XML is an industry standard, so it has massive <br />
support, and almost all vendors support it in one way or another. 
</p>
<h4>XML Can Be Used to Easily Share Data</h4>
<p>
<br />
The fact that XML is nothing but textual data ensures that it can be shared among heterogeneous <br />
systems. For example, how can a Visual Basic 6 (VB6) application running on a Windows <br />
machine talk with a Java application running on a Unix box? XML is the answer. 
</p>
<h4>XML Can Be Used to Create Specialized Vocabularies</h4>
<p>
<br />
As you already know, XML is an extensible standard. By using XML as a base, you can create <br />
your own vocabularies. Wireless Application Protocol (WAP), Wireless Markup Language <br />
(WML), and Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) are some examples of specialized XML <br />
vocabularies. 
</p>
